# Documents and Media Analytics

[Documents and Media files](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/documents-and-media) 
are assets you want site users to look at or download. 

Are your Documents and Media engaging site visitors? Analytics Cloud can give
you important insights.

## Visitor Behavior

The Overview tab of an Asset's detail presents several data presentations. The
first chart, called Visitor Behavior, is paramount. It contains four important
metrics:

- Downloads
- Previews
- Comments
- Rating

SCREENSHOT

### Downloads

The Downloads trend-line shows the total number of downloads per day over the
selected time period.

### Previews

Documents and Media Documents can be 
[previewed](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/viewing-file-previews). 
Even if not ultimately downloaded, previewing shows interaction with the
file and is therefore an important metric. The Previews trend line shows
the total number of previews per day for the selected time period.

### Comments

Comments can be made on Documents and Media files. The Comments trend line shows
the total number of comments on a file per day over the selected time period.

### Rating

Like other assets, Documents and Media files can be rated. ????????/

## Views by Segment

Scroll down from the Visitor Behavior chart and you'll see the Views by Segment
bar graph, which is present for all Asset types and Pages.

The Views by Segment bar graph shows how many times the Asset was viewed by up
to the top seven Segments over the selected time period. If more than seven
Segments viewed the Asset, the top six are displayed, and views by the remaining
Segments are aggregated in the seventh bar on the graph, labeled _X More
Segments_.

## Views by Location

View a bubble chart to compare the views by country over the selected period. Up
to the top five countries are displayed, and the sixth bubble is an aggregation
of the remaining countries.

## Views by Technology

View a stacked bar graph of the Page's views by operating system (grouped by
device type) in the default tab.

SCREENSHOT

Click *Web Browser* to see a donut chart displaying up to the top eight web
browsers over the selected time period. If applicable, remaining web borwsers
are aggregated in the ninth <!-- (ninth what? can't view the test server right
now)-->.

## Asset Appears On

The Asset Appears On table includes a Page Name and URL for a Page that's been
pulled in to Analytics Cloud from your Data Source. It's important ot note that
the link doesn't take you to the actual Page with the Asset on it. Instead, it
leads to the Page Analytics view of the Page. From there you can click the URL
to the actual Page.

