# Web Content Analytics

[Web Content Articles](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-1/web-content) 
are important assets for presenting site visitors with information.  Analytics
Cloud gives you important insights into how site users are engaging with your
content.

## Visitor Behavior

The Overview tab of an Asset's detail presents several data presentations. The
first chart, called Visitor Behavior, is paramount. It contains one important
metric: views.

SCREENSHOT

The number of views per day is plotted over the selected time period to
establish a View trend line. Use this to evaluate how well the content engages
visitors over time.

## Views by Segment

Scroll down from the Visitor Behavior chart and you'll see the Views by Segment
bar graph, which is present for all Asset types and Pages.

The Views by Segment bar graph shows how many times the Asset was viewed by up
to the top seven Segments over the selected time period. If more than seven
Segments viewed the Asset, the top six are displayed, and views by the remaining
Segments are aggregated in the seventh bar on the graph, labeled _X More
Segments_.

## Views by Location

View a bubble chart to compare the views by country over the selected period. Up
to the top five countries are displayed, and the sixth bubble is an aggregation
of the remaining countries.

## Views by Technology

View a stacked bar graph of the Page's views by operating system (grouped by
device type) in the default tab.

SCREENSHOT

Click *Web Browser* to see a donut chart displaying up to the top eight web
browsers over the selected time period. If applicable, remaining web borwsers
are aggregated in the ninth <!-- (ninth what? can't view the test server right
now)-->.

## Asset Appears On

The Asset Appears On table includes a Page Name and URL for a Page that's been
pulled in to Analytics Cloud from your Data Source. It's important ot note that
the link doesn't take you to the actual Page with the Asset on it. Instead, it
leads to the Page Analytics view of the Page. From there you can click the URL
to the actual Page.

